Welcome to the Life Church Podcast.
We are an Acts 2 42 community, a family on a mission to bring a life of Jesus to warranty.
We hope you're ready to hear what God has to say to you today through His Word and by His Spirit.
We've been walking through Romans together, the Roman road, and it's my privilege to finish, well, lots of finish you off.
Well, maybe it will feel finished off in half an hour, who knows?
But it's my privilege to finish that series this evening.
And it's been good and important to talk about these things because one of the things that's important to us as a church is that we are a gospel centric church.
The gospel is at the heart of what we do.
And often in church you can get distracted by all kinds of things, like how good is the youth ministry,
Are we serving people, hospitality properly?
Are people in a life group?
What's the worship light?
Is it too loud?
Is it too quiet?
All of these different things, but they can become a distraction if you don't keep the main thing, the main thing.
And the main thing is this, that Christ Jesus came into the world to say sinners.
That's the main thing.
That's the message of the gospel.
All right.
So from time to, it's good to talk about the other stuff.
Because all those other things I mentioned, they're really important.
But the most important thing is how we've come to be here and what God has done in our lives and what a difference that's made and the basis on which we believe what we believe.
So at the Apostle Paul, he planted a church in a place called Corinth.
He was there for a year and a half and he wrote to them a few years later and he said to them a few things.
He said, I want to remind you of the gospel.
He says it's of first importance that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures that he was buried and that he was raised again three days later according to the scriptures.
Paul said those things because the gospel was the most important thing.
And as we've gone through this book of Romans together, we've gone down this Roman road, which takes us on this journey through the scriptures, the book of Romans in salvation.
And that's where we will go again this evening.
But the gospel is by this gospel that we save.
That's what Paul says.
Tim Keller, he's passed away now, but he was a pastor and a writer.
I always find what he says, easy to digest because he puts things in really simple but profound terms.
And this is what Tim Keller said that the gospel is.
He said, the gospel is this, that we are more sinful and flawed in ourselves
than we ever dared believe.
Yet at the same time, we are more loved and accepted in Jesus Christ than we ever dared to hope.
And that is the message of the gospel tonight, that we are sinful and flawed, and we need a Savior, and His name is Jesus, and He has loved and accepted us more than we would ever dare to hope.
And so, these last few weeks we've been on this Roman road,
First week, we were reminded by Dell.
I think it was cast in my mind back.
We were reminded from Romans 3.23.
The first step on this Roman road is the all of sinned.
The Bible says in Romans 3.23, it says, there's no difference between Jews and Gentiles for all of sinned and full short of the glory of God.
That was our need.
That's where we find ourselves before we find Christ.
We are sinners and we are lost.
And then in the second week, we talked about the fact that Christ died for us.
The consequence of sin.
The Bible says, for the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ, our Lord.
The Bible reminds us in Romans chapter five, for while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
This is the good news.
that Christ died for us so that we don't need to stay in our sin.
And then last week, Jason brilliantly preached to us from the Scriptures, Romans chapter 10, verse nine, that we're invited to confess Jesus as Lord.
The Bible says that if we declare with our mouths, Jesus is Lord and we believe in our heart that God raised him from the dead, we will be saved.
Jesus has authority over my life.
That's what we say.
when we say Jesus is Lord, Jesus is my Lord, not sin, not comfort, not my agenda, not my selfishness, but Jesus is my Lord.
And that's what happens at the moment of salvation when we say yes to Christ and we become a new creation.
This evening, what I wanna close this series out with is I was having an understanding from the Bible of the security and certainty that we can have
now that we are Christians, now that we have accepted God's free gift of salvation.
It's a verse in Philippians chapter one, which says this, Paul says this to the church, he says, being confident of this.
And this is what I speak over you this evening as followers of Christ.
You're on this road, this journey of following Jesus, this road of salvation.
And this is what I pray over you and myself this evening that being confident of this
that he who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion until the day of Jesus Christ.
I believe God's heart for you is that now that you're on this journey of following him, that you're following well, you're following faithfully, and you'll know what it is to have that assurance of faith.
You understand what Christ has done for you, not just in that moment of salvation, but every day
as you follow Christ as his Lord of your life.
I want us to understand the security and certainty of our salvation, it rests on the work of Christ.
That's what it rests on.
It's because of what Christ has done for you and me this evening that we can be confident and certain of this gift of salvation that God has given to us.
It's not by our works, it's because of his work
in us.
It's not about us doing enough.
It's not about us thinking today, am I good enough to be saved?
Did I pray hard enough?
Did I sin too much?
Okay, that's not the nature of salvation.
When we start to think and act like that, what we're doing actually is we're actually flicking back to works.
We're actually saying like, if I'm good enough,
then I'll stay saved.
If I pray enough, I'll stay saved.
If I don't sin today, I'll stay saved.
What we do when we say that is we move away from the finished work of Jesus on the cross, which we understand is by grace.
It's not by work.
So that's what the Bible says.
And all of a sudden, particularly when we've been a Christian for a while, we think, oh, we're doing really well.
like we're really spiritual, we're really holy.
So actually, it's not just about what Jesus did on the cross 2000 years ago.
It's not only by grace, I've been saved, but actually it's a bit to do in my works, because if I'm just good enough, if I just pray enough, if I'm just kind enough to others, that will earn me enough brownie points in order that I can be saved.
No, that's not true.
And when we think like that, what we do is actually,
we do discredit to the cross.
Because if it was possible for you and me to be saved through our own works, then there was no need for Jesus to come.
But there was need for Jesus to come because all of sin and fallen short of the glory of God, the wages of sin are death.
And we understand in our lives what it is to be free from that because of the work that Christ did on the cross.
But what we need to do is we need to understand
that the work of Christ on the cross continues to be enough right throughout our life until we get to heaven.
And that's what Paul wants to remind us of this evening from the Scriptures.
In Romans 10, verse 13, he says these words, everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
Like it's a statement of fact, it's absolutely true.
There was no doubt in Paul's mind when he wrote those words.
When we respond in faith to Christ, our standing before God rests on his faithfulness and not ours.
So there's three brief things, just about that verse, and then just a couple of things before I finish.
So three things about that verse.
First of all, is that word, everyone.
Everyone.
The verse is, everyone who calls on the name of the law will be saved.
That reminds us of the inclusivity of the gospel and the certainty that everyone can be saved.
Okay?
This evening, it doesn't matter what you've been like.
It doesn't matter what you've done.
The fact is that the invitation from the verse is for everyone.
It's available to everyone.
This breaks down every barrier of ethnicity, particularly in the context that it was written.
It was written to Jews and Gentiles.
And Paul was reminding them that everyone who calls on the name of the law can be saved.
That everyone demolishes every boundary that humans would try and put around God's grace.
You know, we can think, well, the gospel isn't for everyone because surely it's not for that person.
or it's not for that person, or maybe even it's not for me.
But this evening, God doesn't want us to limit His grace.
God's grace does not need protecting by you and me.
God's grace goes to everyone.
And we can be confident this evening and have that assurance of faith because we are part of the everyone, you and me.
God's grace has reached into our lives.
We don't need to be the grace police.
And notice that the text also says everyone and not everybody.
There's this personal confession of faith that we need to make.
Let me ask you this evening, are you part of the everyone tonight?
Was there a moment in your life where you confess that Jesus was Lord and you believed in your heart that God raised him from the dead?
The Bible says that when we do that, we become a child of God.
So if you want that assurance tonight,
then you must ensure that you are part of the everyone.
So there's the inclusivity of the gospel in that.
The second thing that we see in this verse, everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved is that we see the simplicity of the gospel.
It is gloriously simple, okay?
That doesn't mean it's ineffective.
It doesn't mean it's second class.
It just means
that the gospel is gloriously simple.
And what happens is often we can try and make it more than it is in terms of how people access the gospel.
It's all about the position of your heart.
The simplicity of the gospel is where is your heart in relation to God?
Have you called on the name of the Lord?
This means if you genuinely appeal to God through Jesus Christ,
for salvation.
Have you this evening acknowledged your need of him and asked him to save you.
We simply need to confess Jesus is Lord and believe in our heart that God raised him from the dead.
It's about believing and it's not about doing.
We need to remember that.
It's about the position of our heart.
And what we need to do in order to respond to this verse and to have that assurance of faith
that we belong to Christ is, we simply call on the name of the Lord and he promises to rescue us.
I love the narrative in Luke 23 where there are three men on crosses.
Jesus is in the middle and there are two thieves on either side of him.
One of the thieves turns to Jesus and he says, if the Bible says that he cursed Jesus, he said, Jesus, if you're the son of God, then you can get us down off here
Like, do your thing.
He wasn't really interested in who Jesus was.
He was just interested in getting out of that situation he was in.
But a glorious picture of the gospel of what Christ does for us was the other thief on the cross.
The other thief on the cross, he recognized that Jesus did not deserve to be in that space in that place.
And he turns to Jesus and he says these words, and this was his confession of faith.
He said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom.
And Jesus' response is instantaneous.
Jesus tells him to do nothing.
Jesus didn't have the thief on the cross, didn't have any time for good works.
There wasn't any time for an alpha course or baptism classes.
There wasn't any room to work through the values of life church, Acts 2, 42.
He couldn't make any amends.
All he could do in that moment was holy trust in Jesus' name.
And Jesus says these words to him.
He says to him, truly, I tell you, today you will be with me in paradise.
You see, there was no space for works, there was no space to make amends.
In that moment, all the thief on the cross could simply do
was trust Christ as his Savior.
He had to rely wholly on the finished work of Christ on the cross.
And that's what he did.
That moment of personal interaction and confession, he recognized that Jesus was the answer.
So we have to remember when we listen, when we hear that verse, everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
We have to remember live church this evening that it's not about me, but it's about he.
It's about what he has done.
It's about not about what I might do, but it's about what he has done.
And that's where our assurance of faith comes from, because we recognize that it's nothing to do with us.
All we have to do is we have to confess
that Jesus is Lord and we have to put our faith and our trust in Him.
Simply in the act of faith, we know what it is to pass over from death unto life.
One Peter 2, 24 says, he himself bore our sins in his body on the tree.
John 1 29, he is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world.
One Corinthians 1 verse 30, he is our righteousness
holiness and redemption.
You get the theme.
It's about him.
It's about what he has done.
It's not about what we do.
And then the final thing is this that we see in this text.
Those words will be saved.
This reminds us this evening of the certainty of the gospel.
It's absolutely certain.
This is the promise that God gives to us
He keeps his promise, our salvation rests on God's grip on us, not our grip on him.
Listen to what Jesus says in John chapter 10.
He says, my sheep listen to my voice and I know them and they follow me.
I give them eternal life and they shall never perish.
No one will snatch them out of my hand.
Romans eight verse one, there is now no condemnation for those
who are in Christ Jesus.
The amplified version said there's no guilty verdict, there's no punishment for those who are in Christ Jesus.
And there's the ongoing certainty of the gospel that we can enjoy, that we can have that assurance of faith in.
We need to understand this evening live church that you are not on a probationary salvation.
Okay, God isn't looking at your life and saying, well, depending on how well they do in the next six months, we'll see if they get through.
Because as soon as you start to talk or think like that, what you're doing is you're ignoring the work of the cross and you're actually saying, well, Lord, I understand that the cross is enough to save me, but I don't believe that the cross is enough to keep me.
Let me tell you tonight, live church, the cross is enough to save you and the cross is enough to keep you.
The finished work of the cross is enough.
As soon as we start to think it's about us, how good we are, how well we do, how little we sin, how much we pray, all of a sudden, what we're doing is we switching to a gospel of works where it's about how good I do.
Listen.
Our salvation has never been based upon how well we do.
It's based on his mercy and it's based on his kindness.
Listen to Titus chapter three verse five.
He saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy.
Not only were we saved according to his mercy, but we continue to be saved
because of His mercy and His grace.
We need to understand that it's Him who keeps us.
If we think it's about us and what we do, then what we're seeking to do in that is we're seeking to add to the cross our good works in order that we are saved.
But let me tell you, the equation is this, that Jesus plus nothing equals salvation.
Jesus plus nothing equals salvation.
We simply need to confess with our mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in our heart that God raised him from the dead and then we are saved.
Here are some scriptures this evening.
Reasons why you can be certain that you, that your salvation is sure.
Romans 8 verse 30.
Those he predestined, he also called, those he called, he also justified, those he justified, he also glorified.
To be justified by God means being legally declared righteous, forgiven of all sins and accepted by God, not based on personal merit, but through faith in Jesus Christ and his finished work.
It is an instantaneous, inevocable act of grace where Christ's righteousness is imputed to the believer, treating them as if they had never sinned.
That's what it means to be justified.
So listen, this evening you can be certain because you've been justified.
Second, you can be certain because the Bible says that Jesus intercedes for you.
Verse 34 of Romans 8.
Jesus Christ who died more than that was raised to life is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us.
Jesus prays for the believers this evening.
Third reason you can be certain, you can be certain because the Bible says that nothing can separate you from the love of God.
Listen to what the Bible says.
Romans 8 verse 39, for I am convinced that neither death nor life
Neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Okay, this is the problem that we have with this doctrine sometimes.
The problem is that we mix up sanctification and salvation.
Okay?
Sanctification and salvation.
Both are really important.
They're both things that you understand.
Okay?
Your salvation is a gift from God that is available through the finished work of Christ.
The reason you're saved, it's nothing to do with you.
All you have to do is accept it by faith.
Okay?
Your salvation is through faith in Christ alone.
That is a gift that's been given to you, it's not by works.
So that's salvation.
That's a gift, it's given, you can't earn it.
But then there's this thing called sanctification.
This doesn't add to our salvation.
Sanctification is the process whereby we become more like Jesus.
We become more holy.
We please Him with our lives.
we become more surrendered to Him.
Sin is less in our lives.
That's the process of sanctification.
The Bible says that we're being sanctified by the power of the Holy Spirit in us, we seek to live lives that please God, hopefully more and more.
Maybe sometimes we have bad days here, but more and more, we want our lives to please Him.
That's the process of sanctification.
And the Bible says that one day, when we get to heaven, we will see him and we will become like him.
We'll be fully sanctified.
What we do is we get these two tied up together.
What we do is we think that our salvation and our sanctification are like locked in together.
We think that actually, if I'm doing really well, then I'm definitely saved.
If I'm not doing really well, like our sanctification pulls our salvation down.
Like it's nonsense, yeah?
Salvation is here.
That's a work of the cross.
It's been done.
It's complete.
It's a gift.
You just have to receive it.
But sanctification is important as well.
It's really important.
If you've been saved, evidence that Christ is at work in you will be
that you have a desire to do the things that God wants you to do.
But listen, your desire for wanting to do those things that God wants you to do, it doesn't make you more saved.
It does please the heart of God.
It is good.
It is good to be more like Jesus.
Jesus says, if you love me, you'll keep my commands.
Peter writes in the scripture, be holy because I am holy, yeah?
It's a good thing, but it doesn't add to your salvation.
All of us will have to give an account of our life before God.
The decisions that we make, how we use our resources, how we use the gifts that God has given to us, all of us we will have to give an account of those things.
But our salvation is only through what Christ has done for us.
So I would say, as I look at scripture,
this evening, if you have confessed with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and you've believed in your heart that God raised him from the dead, like I believe that you're saved and you can have an assurance of faith and salvation in what Christ has done for you, yeah?
It's a done deal.
And if that is your story, then there will be this desire in you to wanna please him.
Now listen, I got baptized when I was 14 years old.
I'm now 54, so that's that, 40 years ago, okay.
I said yes to Jesus when I was very young, I was about four.
I got baptized when I was 40, yeah?
So salvation happened at some point back there when I believed Jesus as my savior.
Let me tell you, and I say this gently, and I say this with respect, yeah, but I have done most of my sinning in my life
since I was 14.
Without doubt, yeah, I was saved between the age of four and 10.
And since I was 14, I've been saved, my salvation is sure.
It's because of what Christ has done.
But I have, if I'm honest with you, in the last 40 years, I definitely sinned more than I did before I was 14.
I mean, you know, give me a break.
It's just like four times as long, isn't it?
Yeah?
But the thing is, this is why I want you to see the difference between salvation and sanctification, yeah?
Salvation is sure, and it's a work of what Christ has done.
Sanctification is my responsibility in the power of the Spirit to live my life in a way that's honoring to God.
I mean, I'd like to say that my sanctification, if I was looking at you, is like up and to the right, constantly, but it's not, you know,
You know, it's up here sometimes, maybe I have a bad day and maybe I sin and I have to say sorry to God and God restores me.
Maybe there's, maybe in my life now, maybe there's, you know, I'm knowing what it is to overcome sin and temptation.
So my sanctification improves, yeah?
But what we need to understand is that my salvation is not based.
on my sanctity, oh he's put my chart up there now, isn't he?
Alright, so, thanks Johnny.
So, there is Lucas' line of salvation along the top.
You see that?
When I was four, there's a cross on the chart, saved.
Why am I saved?
I'm saved because of what Christ has done for me, yeah?
But then my sanctification, it's not very good, is it really?
So, at four I'm improving, at 14 after that I had a bit of a blip,
And then I had some challenges at about 16.
And then since then, I've just sought to improve.
And according to this chart, I'm gonna live to 70, yeah?
See that there?
And you notice at 70, when I hit the edge, I zoom straight up because at that moment, I will meet Jesus, thanks Johnny, and I will become like him.
I want you to understand this evening that you can have an assurance of faith
Even if sometime, there are moments in our lives where we feel we let God down.
I don't believe you become unsafe and saved every two minutes.
The Bible says that you're a son or you're a daughter of the king.
The Bible says you've been adopted into his family.
The assurance of faith that we have, it's no cockiness or confidence in ourselves.
It's because we absolutely recognize the work of the cross and what Christ has done for us.
And our attitude should be, as Paul talks about in Romans 5 or 6, shall we go on sinning that grace may abound?
Paul says, absolutely not.
If we belong to Him and we love Him, our desire will be that our lives steer clear from sin and we live lives that please Him.
We sang earlier in our songs together, Christ be magnified in me
Christ be magnified from the altar of my life.
A saint who has assurance of faith needs to be someone who says, Christ be magnified in me.
Not that I can add my good works to your salvation of my soul, but that I might please you as your son or your daughter.
This is the verse I want to leave you with this evening, the band can come now.
Thank you.
Ephesians chapter 5 verse 10.
It says simply this, find out what pleases the Lord.
If you love Jesus this evening, if you confess to me as your savior, if you're grateful for the certainty of your salvation, then this should be the posture of your heart tonight, that you'll have that heart that says, Lord, what is it that pleases you?
How can I live my life in a way that's honoring to you?
We're gonna finish our service this evening by singing a hymn together,
It's a song that's rich in theology, and it beautifully expresses Christ's wondrous sacrifice and provision for us.
And there are scores of scriptures that sit behind these verses.
It's a hymn written by Charity Lee Smith called Before the Throne of God.
And I just want to read a couple of the lines to you.
We sing this song together at the end of this Romans road series because it reminds us
that there is one who ever intercedes and prays for us.
And the reason why we can be confident in our salvation is because it's a work of what Christ has done in us.
It's a gift.
It's not by works.
It's by grace.
And he continues to hold us.
Verse two says these words, because the sinless Savior died, my sinful soul is counted free.
for God that just is satisfied to look on him and pardon me.
And then in the final verse, the writer writes these words, one with himself, I cannot die.
My soul is purchased by his blood.
My life is hid with Christ on high, with Christ my Savior and my God.
Father, we thank you for the truth of your word this evening that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
We thank you for that assurance of faith that we can have tonight because Lord this evening none of us are relying on our own good works.
But Lord it's you that saved us and it's Lord it's you that continues to keep us saved.
Lord I pray this evening that all of us will have that assurance of faith
And Lord, if there is any one part of this congregation this evening that's never trusted you as Savior, Lord, thank you that they too can have that assurance of faith.
If we confess with our mouth that Jesus is Lord, and we believe in our heart that God grays in from the dead, and we can be saved.
And so Lord, I pray that there will or even this evening be people that put their faith and their trust in you.
And Lord, I pray this evening,
I believe, Lord, that You want us to know this truth, so not that our lives live from a place of apathy, but, Lord, that we live from a place of deep appreciation of the Son of God who loved me and gave Himself for me.
I pray that there will be a healthy response in our hearts towards this truth this evening.
The Lord, as we recognize what You have already done for us, the response of our hearts will simply be to want to please You.
with every part of our lives.
We thank you for the salvation gift that you've given to us.
And I pray that your teachers to use all that you've given us in a way that's honouring to you.
Amen.
We've come to the end of this week's message.
We hope you've been impacted and inspired.
Please keep up to date with everything that's happening by visiting our website at www.livechurchbarrington.com.